>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, APRIL 5th.
A CHINESE SHIP HUNTING FOR
MALAYSIAN FLIGHT 370 DETECTS A
UNDERWATER SIGNAL THAT COULD B
COMING FROM THE MISSING PLANE'
BLACK BOX.
THE HEAVY TURNOUT IN
AFGHANISTAN'S PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION, DESPITE THREATS OF
VIOLENCE FROM THE TALIBAN.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, THIS
IRS INSIDER SAYS SOME TA
PREPARERS MAY BE PUTTING YOU A
RISK
>> WE ARE HARMING TAXPAYERS BY
NOT INSISTING THAT THESE PEOPL
HAVE SOME BASIC LEVEL OF
COMPETENCE
>> AND THIS WOMAN GOES LOOKING
FOR POETS.
WHERE ELSE
BUT ON THE NEW YORK CITY SUBWAY.
NEXT, ON "PBS NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FO
JOINING US
THERE IS A POTENTIALLY
SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENT IN THE
SEARCH FOR MALAYSIAN 777 THA
WENT MISSING FOUR WEEKS AG
TODAY, WITH 239 PEOPLE ON BOARD.
BRITAIN'S CHANNEL 4 NEWS HAS OUR
REPORT
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE CHINESE
PATROL SHIP, THE OHIO OHIO HIGH
SHIN
IT PICKED UP A PULSE SIGNAL LAST
NIGHT A FREQUENCY OF 41.
KILOHERTZ, USED BY BLACK BOXES
ITS LOCATION WAS HERE, JUS
NORTH OF WHERE PREVIOUS
COULDN'T SAY SEARCH EFFORTS WERE
CONCENTRATED AND ABOUT 1800
KILOMETERS FROM PERTH.
>> IF, AND IT'S A BIG IF, THIS
IS THE PING FROM THE BLACK BOX
RECORDER, IT MEANS THE SEARC
AREA HAS GONE TO AN AREA THA
WAS ORIGINALLY 85,000 SQUARE
MILES TO AN AREA THAT'S GOING TO
BE IN THE ORDER OF TEN SQUAR
MILES.
SO WE'VE GONE FROM THE
IMPOSSIBLE TO THE PLAUSIBLE.
AND IT MEANS THAT THEY WILL LAND
USING SIGHT SCAN S.O.N.A.R. AN
ROVs, REMOTELY OPPOSE RATE
VEHICLES WITH CAMERAS AND LIGHTS
TO LOOK AT THE SEA FLOOR
>> Reporter: CHINESE MEDIA O
BOARD THE SHIP FILMED CREW
FISHING OUT MATERIAL FROM TH
SEA AROUND THE NEW LOCATION.
BUT AGAIN, NO INDICATION I
RELATED TO THE PLANE
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT THE CHINES
GET THIS RIGHT
THERE IS VERY LITTLE LIFE LEFT
IN THE BATTERY OF THOSE BLAC
BOXES.
THERE IS NOT MUCH MORE
DISAPPOINTMENT TO THE FAMILIES
OF THOSE LOST CAN TAKE
>>> MILLIONS OF AFGHANS CAST
THEIR BALLOTS TO DO TO CHOOSE
SUCCESSOR TO KARZAI.
IT WILL BE THE FIRST EVE
DEMOCRATIC TRANSFER OF POWER
DESPITE RAIN AND THREATS O
VIOLENCE FROM THE TALIBAN,
TURNOUT IN SOME PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY WAS SO HIGH, POLLING
CENTERS WERE KEPT OPEN AN EXTR
HOUR
THERE WAS NO MAJOR VIOLENC
REPORTED
OFFICIAL RESULTS ARE NOT
EXPECTED FOR ANOTHER WEEK OR
TWO.
IF NO CANDIDATE GETS A MAJORITY,
THERE WILL BE A RUNOFF BETWEEN
THE TOP TWO FINISHERS NEXT
MONTH.
WE'LL HAVE MORE AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
>>> A FEDERAL JUDGE HA
DISMISSED A LAWSUIT AGAINST TH
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, BROUGHT BY
THE FAMILIES OF THREE AMERICAN
KILLED BY U.S. DRONE STRIKES I
YEMEN.
ONE OF THOSE KILLED, ANWAR AL AL
AWLAKI, WAS TARGETED I
SEPTEMBER, 2011, AFTER THE U.S
CONCLUDED HE WAS A TERRORIST
LEADER
U.S. OFFICIALS SAID THE OTHE
TWO WERE KILLED BY MISTAKE
JUDGE ROSEMARY COLLIER, WH
ISSUED THE RULING SAID, QUOTIN
NOW, IN THIS DELICATE AREA O
WAR-MAKING, NATIONAL SECURIT
AND FOREIGN RELATIONS, THE
JUDICIARY HAS AN EXCEEDINGLY
LIMITED ROLE
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN NEARLY 3
YEARS, AMERICAN AND CUBAN BOXERS
HAVE COMPETED AGAINST ON
ANOTHER IN CUBA.
THE CUBANS WON ALL FIVE BOUT
LAST NIGHT IN HAVANA, FOUR B
DECISION AND ONE BY KNOCKOUT
ALL PART OF AN INTERNATIONAL
COMPETITION INVOLVING 12
COUNTRIES.
TWO YEARS AGO, A TEAM OF
AMERICAN COLLEGIATE ALL-STAR
BASEBALL PLAYERS COMPETED IN
CUBA
>>> FROM SOUTH AMERICA, WORD
THAT A VOLCANO IN ECUADOR HA
SPEW A COLUMN OF HOT ASH AND
SMOKE SIX MILES INTO THE AIR
RAISING FEARS OF AN EVEN BIGGE
ERUPTION TO COME
THE VOLCANO IS ONE OF EIGH
ACTIVE VOLCANOS IN THAT COUNTRY,
PART OF THE SO-CALLED PACIFI
RING OF FIRE
>>> TYSON FOODS IS RECALLING
MORE THAN 75,000 POUNDS OF
FROZEN CHICKEN NUGGET PRODUCTS
THIS AFTER THE AGRICULTURE
DEPARTMENT SAID THEY MAY B
CONTAMINATED WITH WHAT IT CALL
EXTRANEOUS MATERIALS
SOME CONSUMERS HAVE COMPLAINED
ABOUT SUFFERING ORAL INJURIE
AFTER BITING INTO SMALL PIECES
OF PLASTIC DISCOVERED IN THE
CHICKEN NUGGET PRODUCT
THE SUSPECT ITEMS WERE SHIPPED
TO INDIANA AND ARKANSAS.
>>> FOR MORE ABOUT TODAY'S
VOTING IN AFGHANISTAN, WE'RE
JOINED FROM KABUL BY KEVIN
WASHINGTON POST BUREAU CHIEF
YOU'RE OUT AT THE POLLS TODAY.
WHAT WERE THE SCENES LIKE?
>> Reporter: I THINK IT DEPEND
WHERE YOU WERE IN AFGHANISTA
TODAY.
IN KABUL, THE LINES WERE VER
LONG
LOTS OF MEN AND WOMEN VOTING
IN SOME PLACES, ACTUALLY RAN OUT
OF BALLOTS, THERE WERE SO MANY
PEOPLE WHO WANTED TO VOTE.
WHERE I SPENT MOST OF THE DAY,
ABOUT 70 MILES SOUTH OF KABUL,
THERE WERE VERY FEW VOTERS
QUITE A BIT OF SORT OF
SMALL-SCALE TALIBAN VIOLENCE
AND PEOPLE WORRIED ABOUT THE
INSURGENTS POTENTIALLY PUNISHING
VOTERS AFTER CASTING THEIR
BALLOTS.
SO I THINK IT REALLY VARIE
ACROSS THE COUNTRY PRETT
WILDLY
>> WHAT ABOUT THE LEADIN
CANDIDATES
>> Reporter: A FORMER WORLD BANK
OFFICIAL, JOHNS HOPKIN
PROFESSOR, PhD FROM COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY, WHO RAN IN 2009.
AND I THINK AT AROUND 3% OF TH
VOTE
DID VERY, VERY POORLY.
BUT THIS TIME HAS MANAGED TO
REALLY GALVANIZE A HUGE NUMBER
OF AFGHAN VOTERS
IN PART BY CHOOSING
CONTROVERSIAL VICE PRESIDENT,
WARLORD NAMED DOSTIN, VERY, VERY
POPULAR WITH CERTAIN ETHNI
GROUPS, BUT HAS A SORT O
SKETCHY HISTORY.
THE OTHER CANDIDATE WHO IS DOING
VERY WELL IS DR. ABDULLA
ABDULLAH, CAME IN SECOND T
KARZAI
AND ABDULLAH IS THE MOST
PROMINENT TAJC CANDIDATE AT THIS
POINT.
AND IT WILL DO VERY WELL IN TH
FIRST ROUND.
THE QUESTION IS, IN A COUNTR
WHERE THE MAJORITY OF TH
POPULATION ARE ETHNIC POSH
TUNES, WILL ABDULLAH AND TAJC BE
ABLE TO WIN THE ELECTION
THAT SEEMS UNLIKELY.
>> SO YOU HAVE ONE CANDIDATE
FAVORED BY KARZAI, THE ONE
TRAILING IN THE POLLS, AND A
VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDAT
THAT'S A WOMAN
>> Reporter: YEAH, KARZAI HA
NOT PUBLICLY ARTICULATED ANY
PREFERENCE
THERE IS WIDESPREAD PERCEPTION
THAT HE'S FAVORING DR. SEWELL,
HIS FORMER FOREIGN MINISTER.
BUT IT'S UNCLEAR EXACTLY WHA
THAT PREFERENCE WOULD MEAN, IF
IT, IN FACT, IS TRUE
BUT RASUAL IS A FRENCH EDUCATE
PHYSICIAN, WOULD BE AN HISTORI
THING IN AFGHANISTAN
ACCORDING TO THE POLLS, WHICH,
OF COURSE, AREN'T PRECISE IN
AFGHANISTAN.
HE IS IN A DISTANT THIRD
>> IF ONE OF THESE CANDIDATE
COMES INTO POWER, IS THERE A
DIFFERENCE IN POLICY LIKELY THAT
WILL KEEP U.S. TROOPS ON THE
GROUND LONGER?
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S BEEN A BIT O
A GUESSING GAME FROM -- AT THE
U.S. EMBASSY TO FIGURE OUT WOULD
THERE BE A REAL DIFFERENCE I
TERMS OF THE WAY THESE GUY
WOULD GOVERN
THE WAY THEY WOULD DEAL WITH THE
U.S. AND THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
AT THIS POINT, THEY HAVE ALL
SAID ALMOST EXACTLY THE SAME
THING, WHICH IS THAT THE
UNDERSTAND THAT A GOOD
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE U.S., WITH
THE WEST, IS ABSOLUTELY CRUCIA
TO THE FUTURE OF AFGHANISTAN
OF COURSE, WE HEARD HAMID KARZAI
SAY THAT A FEW YEARS AGO, AN
OBVIOUSLY HE SPEAKS VERY
DIFFERENTLY NOW.
SO THE QUESTION IS, ONCE THESE
GUYS ARE ELECTED, WILL THEY SORT
OF CHANGE THEIR TUNE
I THINK IT'S VERY HARD FOR A
AFGHAN LEADER, BECAUSE YOU HAV
TO BALANCE THE SORT OF -- TH
IMPORTANCE OF STRESSING AFGHAN
SOVEREIGNTY, WHICH KARZAI HA
DONE
WITH THE RECOGNITION THAT THIS
COUNTRY WILL ABSOLUTELY IMPLOD
WITHOUT FOREIGN FUNDING,
ESPECIALLY WITHOUT AMERICA
FUNDING.
>> ALL RIGHT, WASHINGTON BUREA
CHIEF IN KABUL
THANKS VERY MUCH
♪♪
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
THE TAX FILING DEADLINE IS FAS
APPROACHING, AND TENS OF
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS AR
TURNING TO PROFESSIONALS T
PREPARE THEIR RETURNS.
BUT AS WE DISCOVER, THERE AR
SIGNIFICANT QUESTIONS ABOUT HO
PREPARED MANY OF THESE TAX
PREPARERS ACTUALLY ARE
"NEWS HOUR" SPECIA
CORRESPONDENT, STACY TISDALE
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: IT'S TAX TIME
AND HERE IN PHILADELPHIA
THERE'S NO SHORTAGE OF STORE
FRONTS OFFERING FAST REFUNDS
INSTANT CASH AND LOW PRICES.
BUT FOR THE TAXPAYER TRYING TO
DECIDE WHERE TO GO, IT CAN B
SURPRISINGLY HARD TO FIGURE OU
HOW QUALIFIED YOUR TAX PREPARE
IS
ANYBODY TODAY CAN HANG UP
SHINGLE AND BE A TAX RETUR
PREPARER
NINA OLSON IS THE NATIONAL
TAXPAYER ADVOCATE.
SHE HEADS AN INDEPENDENT OFFICE,
CREATED BY CONGRESS, T
REPRESENT THE VOICE OF THE
TAXPAYER, INSIDE THE IRS
>> IF YOU GET YOUR HAIRCUT, IF
YOU GO TO A LOCKSMITH, THERE'S
ALL SORTS OF PROFESSIONA
CERTIFICATIONS
BUT NOT FOR RETURN PREPARATION
>> SO THERE'S NO EXAM.
>> NO EXAM
>> NO REQUIREMENT YOU HAVE TO BE
EDUCATED ON TAX LAW?
>> NOPE.
YOU CAN JUST HANG UP YOU
SHINGLE OR NOT, JUST DO IT O
YOUR KITCHEN TABLE
AND WE ARE AT OUR PERIL, HARMING
TAXPAYERS, BY NOT INSISTING THAT
THESE PEOPLE HAVE SOME BASIC
LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.
>> Reporter: 46 STATES
INCLUDING RIGHT HERE I
PENNSYLVANIA, THERE'
PRACTICALLY NO REGULATION ON
UNENROLLED TAX PREPARERS
THOSE ARE THE HUNDREDS O
THOUSANDS OF TAX PROFESSIONALS
WHO ARE NOT CPAs, NOT ATTORNEYS,
NOR ENROLLED AGENTS.
ALL TOGETHER, UNENROLLED TAX
PREPARERS COMPLETED OVER 4
MILLION TAX RETURNS IN 2012.
THAT'S ABOUT 30% OF ALL TA
RETURNS.
AS NATIONAL TAXPAYER ADVOCATE,
OLSON HAS BEEN PUSHING T
REGULATE THESE UNENROLLED TA
PREPARERS FOR MORE THAN
DECADE
>> I STARTED OUT AS AN
UNENROLLED RETURN PREPARER
IN 1975, I HUNG UP A SHIPPING HE
WILL AND I STARTED PREPARING
RETURNS.
I HAD NO EXPERIENCE WHATSOEVER
I BOUGHT A TEXTBOOK ON
ACCOUNTING, AND I READ THE IRS
RULES AND THE PUBLICATIONS
TODAY, WITH THE ADVENT O
SOFTWARE, IT'S BROUGHT IN AL
SORTS OF PEOPLE.
AND THEY JUST PLUG IN NUMBER
WITH THE RETURN, AND THEY DON'
KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT THE TAX LAW.
>> AND FOR TAXPAYERS, GOING TO
THE WRONG PREPARER CAN BE
COSTLY MISTAKE
>> I WENT SHOPPING AROUND AN
FOUND THIS PLACE, JUST WALK-IN
>> Reporter: SHARON CHANCE IS
42-YEAR-OLD STUDENT IN
PHILADELPHIA
LAST YEAR, SHE SAYS A PREPARER
AT A STORE FRONT TAX SERVICE
TOLD HER SHE COULD CLAIM HER GOD
CHILDREN FOR AN ESTIMATED REFUND
OF $1100
>> SHE SAID ALL WE NEED IS THEIR
INSURANCE CARDS, MEDICAL CARDS
AND DID ALL THAT
>> Reporter: BUT THEY'RE NOT
YOUR CHILDREN.
>> RIGHT
EXACTLY.
AND SHE SAID, WELL, DOES THA
HELP TAKE CARE OF THEM PART OF
THE YEAR
AND I SAID YES, I DID.
FINANCIALLY.
BUT THAT WAS THAT.
IT WASN'T LIKE THEY WERE LIVIN
WITH ME AT ALL
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS SHE DIDN'T
REALIZE THAT TO ADD DEPENDENTS
THEY HAD TO LIVE WITH TH
TAXPAYER FOR MORE THAN SIX
MONTHS
AND BEFORE SHE GOT HER REFUND, A
LETTER ARRIVED FROM THE IRS,
ASKING FOR MORE INFORMATION.
PUZZLED, SHE RETURNED TO HER TAX
PREPARER
>> SHE WAS LIKE, OH, THI
HAPPENS TO EVERYBODY, DON'
WORRY, YOUR MONEY WILL COM
THROUGH.
WE GET THIS ALL OF THE TIME.
>> Reporter: AND CHANCE SAYS THE
TAX PREPARER WANTED $100 MORE TO
FIX THE MISTAKE.
WHAT HAPPENED?
>> I HAD TO TAKE IT INTO MY OW
HANDS AND CONTACT THE IRS, D
ALL THE PAPERWORK.
I WAS VERY HONEST WITH THE
ABOUT THE KIDS NOT LIVING WITH
THEM AND I WAS NOT RELATED AND I
COULD NOT PROVE THAT TO THEM
SO I DID NOT GET PENALIZED FOR
THAT
>> Reporter: IN THE END, CHANC
SAYS SHE ENDED UP GETTING A $400
REFUND, BUT SHE PAID HER TAX
RETURN PREPARER $500
HOW DID ALL OF THIS MAKE YOU
FEEL
>> IRRITABLE
FRUSTRATED
I WANTED TO PUNCH SOMEBODY, LIKE
I REALLY DID
LIKE, I WAS REALLY ANGRY
I CAN'T EVEN EXPRESS
BECAUSE NOBODY IS OUT THER
HELPING YOU.
NOBODY WANTS TO RECTIFY TH
SITUATION.
WHETHER THEY'RE WRONG OR RIGHT
THEY DON'T -- TAX PLACES WON'T
DO IT.
IT'S JUST -- IT JUST HAPPENS
THEY'RE TRYING IT GET YOU FO
MORE MONEY
>> Reporter: INSTANT TAX
SERVICE, THE PREPARER THAT DID
SHARON CHANCE'S TAXES LAST YEAR,
DECLINED AN ON-CAMERA INTERVIEW.
BUT A MANAGER SAYS IF AN
CLIENTS HAD ISSUES, THEY'R
WELCOME TO COME BACK TO TH
OFFICE
IRS TAXPAYER ADVOCATE OLSON SAYS
THE LACK OF REGULATION LEAVE
LOW-INCOME TAXPAYERS LIKE CHANCE
PARTICULARLY VULNERABLE.
>> THE LOW-INCOME POPULATION I
THE POPULATION THAT IS LEAST
EQUIPPED TO PREPARE THEIR OW
RETURNS.
AND THEY ALSO HAVE SOME OF THE
MOST COMPLICATED PROVISIONS IN
THE CODE THAT AFFECT THEM.
>> IF YOU WORKED AND DIDN'T MAKE
MUCH MONEY LAST YEAR -
>> Reporter: THAT MEANS POOR
PEOPLE WHO DEPEND ON ONE OF TH
NATION'S BIGGEST ANTI POVERT
PROGRAMS
THE EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT O
EITC, CAN LOSE A BIG REFUND THEY
DEPEND UPON.
AND THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS
LOST BILLIONS, BECAUSE O
INCORRECTLY FILED TAX RETURNS.
OVER THE PAST DECADE
LEGISLATION TO REGULATE TA
RETURN PREPARERS HAS BEE
INTRODUCED REPEATEDLY IN
CONGRESS, WITH BIPARTISA
SUPPORT, BUT FAILED TO PASS.
SO IN 2011, THE IRS STARTE
IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS ON IT
OWN, TO TRY AND REMEDY THE
SITUATION.
TAX PREPARERS WOULD BE REQUIRE
TO TAKE AN INITIAL CERTIFICATION
EXAM, PAY ANNUAL FEES, AND
COMPLETE AT LEAST 15 HOURS O
CONTINUING EDUCATION EACH YEAR
THE PLAN WAS SUPPORTED BY BI
TAX PREP CHAINS LIKE JACKSON
HEWITT AND H & R BLOCK, BOTH O
WHICH ALREADY HAVE TAX TRAININ
PROGRAMS
IT WAS ALSO SUPPORTED BY GROUP
REPRESENTING ACCOUNTANTS, TA
ATTORNEYS AND ENROLLED AGENTS,
ALL OF WHOM WERE EXEMPTED FROM
THE NEW RULE
BUT IN 2013, THE REGULATORY PLAN
HIT A SNAG
>> YOU WERE SO AGAINST THIS, YOU
SUED THE IRS
TELL ME ABOUT THAT
>> YEAH.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THOUGHT I WAS --
DIDN'T THINK I HAD A CHANCE AT
SUCCEEDING
>> Reporter: JOHN GAMBINO, I
HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY, WHO DOE
TAXES FOR MANY OF HIS CLIENTS,
WOULD HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO THE
NEW TEST AND EDUCATION
REQUIREMENTS
HE WAS A PLAINTIFF IN A FEDERA
LAWSUIT BROUGHT BY A LIBERTARIAN
PUBLIC INTEREST LAW FIRM
THE SUIT CHALLENGED THE IRS'
AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE WHAT I
CALLED A TAX PREPARER LICENSIN
SCHEME
AND IN JANUARY OF 2013,
FEDERAL DISTRICT COURT JUDGE
SIDED WITH GAMBINO AND HALTE
THE IRS' PROGRAM
RULING THE AGENCY LACKED
STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
THIS PAST FEBRUARY, A FEDERA
APPEALS COURT AGREED, LEAVIN
THE NEW REGULATIONS DEAD
BUT DESPITE THE LEGAL VICTORY,
GAMBINO REMAINS CONCERNED ABOU
THE POTENTIAL FOR REGULATION
WHICH HE BELIEVES WOULD BE
ANTI-COMPETITIVE AND INCREAS
COSTS FOR CONSUMERS.
>> RIGHT NOW, THEY'RE FREE T
CHOOSE
I HAVE NOTHING AGAINST CPAs OR
ATTORNEYS WHO PRACTICE TAX PREP.
I THINK RIGHT NOW CONSUMERS AR
FREE TO GO SEE THESE PEOPLE IF
THEY PREFER THAT
BUT THEY ALSO -- LOTS AND LOTS
OF THEM PREFER TO USE PREPARER
LIKE MYSELF WHO ARE NO
LICENSED, BECAUSE THEY THINK
THEY'RE GETTING GOOD VALUE FOR
THE SERVICES THAT WE PROVIDE
>> BUT DOES IT WORRY YOU THERE
IS NO BASIC STANDARD O
COMPETENCY TO BE A TAX PREPARER?
IN 46 STATES, YOU CAN JUST HAN
UP A SHINGLE AND SAY HEY, I CA
DO YOUR TAXES.
>> IT DOESN'T WORRY ME, BECAUS
I THINK CONSUMERS ARE SMARTE
THAN POLITICIANS GIVE THEM
CREDIT FOR
THEY KNOW IF THEY'RE GETTING A
RAW DEAL OR NOT.
I THINK PEOPLE NEED TO BE FREE
TO ENGAGE IN AN HONEST LIVING.
AND I THINK THE REGULATIONS --
YOU'RE PUNISHING PEOPLE FOR
FEW BAD APPLES BEFORE THEY HAV
EVEN DONE ANYTHING WRONG
>> Reporter: WHAT'S MORE
GAMBINO SAYS PEOPLE SHOULD B
SKEPTICAL THAT MANDATING A TES
WILL IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF TA
PREPARATION.
>> SOMEONE WHO IS NOT ETHICAL OR
DOESN'T KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING,
THEY WOULD HAVE MORE INCENTIVE
TO NOT SIGN A TAX RETURN AND
KIND OF JUST OPERATE IN TH
SHADOWS.
AND ALSO, ANYONE CAN STUDY AND
PREPARE FOR AN EXAM.
BUT IT'S NOT NECESSARILY GOING
TO MAKE THEM A GOOD TAX PREPARER
EITHER
>> Reporter: THE IRS DOE
SUPPORT TWO LARGE FREE VOLUNTEER
TAX PREP PROGRAMS.
TAX COUNSELING FOR THE ELDERLY
AND THE VOLUNTEER INCOME TAX
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OR VITA
>> GOOD MORNING.
>> Reporter: MARY ARTHUR IS TH
DIRECTOR OF THE CAMPAIGN FOR
WORKING FAMILIES, WHICH RUNS 1
SITES IN PHILADELPHIA.
SHE SAYS FREE TAX PREP MEANS
MORE MONEY RETURNING TO TH
COMMUNITY.
>> OVER THE PAST 12 YEARS, W
BROUGHT BACK OVER $200 MILLION
TO THE COMMUNITY
SO, YOU KNOW, THIS WORK IS
VITAL.
AND THE DOLLARS THAT COME BACK
TO THE FAMILIES, I MEAN, IN SOME
CASES THAT'S THEIR LIFELINE TO
GETTING THROUGH THE YEAR
>> Reporter: EVEN WITHOUT
REGULATORY PLAN IN PLACE, TH
GOVERNMENT DOES HAVE WAYS TO G
AFTER TAX PREPARERS WHO THEY
ALLEGE COMMIT FRAUD.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE HAS GOTTEN
PERMANENT INJUNCTIONS AGAINS
MORE THAN 60 PREPARERS OVER TH
LAST YEAR OUT OF AN ESTIMATE
900,000 OR MORE.
BUT IRS TAXPAYER ADVOCATE NINA
OLSON SAYS MAKING SURE ALL TAX
IT PREPARERS MEET A MINIMU
LEVEL OF COMPETENCY IS A MOR
EFFICIENT APPROACH THAN GOIN
AFTER FRAUDULENT INDIVIDUA
PREPARERS.
AND THE ABSENCE OF FEDERAL
OVERSIGHT, OLSON DOES AGREE WITH
JOHN GAMBINO THAT THE EXAM AND
TAX EDUCATION SHOULD B
VOLUNTARY.
>> ON TUESDAY, THE SENAT
FINANCE COMMITTEE WILL HOLD
HEARING THAT WILL LOOK INTO WAYS
TO PROTECT TAXPAYERS FROM WHAT
IT DESCRIBES AS INCOMPETENT AN
UNETHICAL RETURN PREPARERS
TAXPAYER ADVOCATE NINA OLSON
WHO YOU JUST MET, WILL BE AMON
THOSE TESTIFYING
>>> LEARN ABOUT THE FREE TAX
PREPARATION SERVICE FO
LOW-INCOME AMERICANS PARTIALLY
FUNDED BY THE IRS ITSELF
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> IF YOU HAVE EVER VISITED NEW
YORK CITY, YOU KNOW YOU CAN FIND
JUST ABOUT ANYTHING, ALMOS
ANYWHERE
MAYBE THAT EXPLAINS WHY ONE NE
YORKER WENT LOOKING FOR POETS IN
THE SUBWAY
"NEWS HOUR" HAS THE STORY THAT
WE OFFER DURING THIS NATIONA
POETRY MONTH
>> Reporter: MADELIN
SCHWARTZMAN SPENDS A GOO
PORTION OF HER MORNING, LIKE
MANY NEW YORKERS DO.
GETTING TO WORK ON THE SUBWAY.
YET UNLIKE MANY STRAP HANGERS,
HER MISSION ISN'T JUST FINALLY
GETTING TO HER DESTINATION I
UPTOWN MANHATTAN
THE JOURNEY ITSELF IS HER GOAL
AND HER SUCCESS ALL DEPENDS ON
THE OPENNESS OF STRANGERS.
>> CAN I ASK YOU -- I'M DOING
PROJECT CALLED 365 SUBWAY POEM
BY NEW YORKERS
WRITE ABOUT YOUR LIFE, ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: THAT'S BECAUSE ON
EVERY SINGLE TRIP TO AND FRO
WORK SINCE LAST SPRING, MADELINE
ASKS FELLOW COMMUTERS TO WRITE A
POEM IN HER NOTEBOOK
>> I LOOK FOR PEOPLE THAT HAVE
THIS QUALITY OF OPENNESS
I CAN COMPLETELY RECOGNIZE WHO
IS SORT OF FREE TO WRITE A POE
AND ALMOST WHO CAN WRITE
I CAN PROVE THAT
IT'S AMAZING
YOU CAN JUST TELL.
AND IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
CLOTHING AND IT'S -- SOMETIMES A
LOOK IN THE EYE.
IT'S THE WAY THEY HOLD THEIR
BODY
EVERY TIME I RIDE THE SUBWAY,
ASK A STRANGER TO WRITE A POEM
>> TO WRITE A POEM
>> WOULD YOU DO ONE?
>> I'LL TRY.
>> OKAY.
>> Reporter: SHE THEN POSTS HE
FAVORITE ENTRIES ON HER WEBSITE,
365-DAY SUBWAY, POEMS BY NEW
YORKERS.
LIKE THIS ONE, WRITTEN TO HER.
ONE STRANGER TO ANOTHER.
>> THIS IS PHYLLIS AT THE FULTON
STREET STATION NUMBER 2 TRAIN.
THIS IS NEW YORK, SPONTANEITY.
A STRANGER ASKS USUALLY FO
MONEY.
BUT TODAY THIS STRANGER ASKS FOR
SOMETHING VALUABLE AND FREE.
SHE ASKED FOR A PART OF ME
I LOVE NEW YORK.
I'M SOMEHOW FASCINATED BY IT
I THINK WE'RE ALL BECOMING MOR
AND MORE ALIENATED
WE CAN CONNECT MORE THROUGH TH
INTERNET, BUT WE'RE MORE
ISOLATED
REALLY, WE'RE ALL INDEPENDEN
AND LIVING APART, BUT THE SUBWAY
IS THIS GIANT CONNECTOR.
SO I FEEL IT'S A VERY FERTIL
SITE
>> Reporter: SCHWARTZMAN I
ACTUALLY NOT A POET HERSELF.
SHE TEACHES ARCHITECTURE AND
DESIGN AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSIT
AND BARNARD COLLEGE.
BUT SHE SAYS SHE HAS ALWAYS BEEN
FAST NAETED BY HOW PEOPL
CONNECT IN PUBLIC SPACES LIK
TRAINS
SHE SAYS WHILE COMMUTING ONE DAY
LAST SPRING, THE IDEA TO ASK
STRANGERS TO WRITE POEMS HIT HER
WITH A FUNK.
SHE HAD THE FIRST PARTICIPANTS
WRITE IN HER iPHONE.
LATER THAT DAY, SHE BOUGHT HER
FIRST NOTEBOOK FOR THE PROJECT
>> PERSON-TO-PERSON, IT'
HAND-TO-PEN.
IT'S PEN-TO-PAPER.
AND I'M ALMOST THINKING, IT'S SO
POWERFUL THAT I WONDER IF THAT
IS SOMETHING REALLY WE'R
MISSING.
LIKE, WHY SHOULDN'T WE TALK TO
STRANGERS?
WHY SHOULDN'T THE TRAIN BE A
PARTY?
WHY ARE THERE SO MAN
BOUNDARIES
>> Reporter: NOW WITH MORE THA
100 ENTRIES, SHE IS ON NOTEBOO
NUMBER FIVE.
>> SOME DAYS IT'S TORTURE.
LIKE, IF I'M HAVING A BAD DAY, I
THINK TO MYSELF AT THAT TIME
WHY DID I DO THIS AND HOW DO I
DO THIS?
THIS WILL NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN
AND THEN THE NEXT DAY OR LATER
ON THE WAY HOME, IT'S EASY
AGAIN.
>> Reporter: WHY DO YOU THIN
YOU'RE SO SUCCESSFUL
WHY DO PEOPLE DECIDE T
PARTICIPATE?
>> I THINK PEOPLE HAVE THINGS TO
SAY THAT THEY'RE NOT TELLING
PEOPLE
THEY WANT TO SHARE THAT THEY'R
IN LOVE.
THEY WANT TO SHARE THEIR PAIN.
THEY WANT TO SHARE THAT THEY'R
HAVING A BAD DAY
BUT WE DON'T REALLY SHARE TH
BAD DAY WITH OUR FRIENDS
SO THEY SORT OF SHARE IT WIT
ME
>> Reporter: SCHWARTZMAN PLANS
TO TURN THIS PROJECT INTO A BOOK
SOME DAY
>> I'M STARTING TO BELIEVE, IT'S
KIND OF CONNECTION THAT MY
COMMODITY IN THIS PROJECT IS
CONNECTING
AND THAT YOU REALLY FEEL
SOMETHING.
IT'S ALMOST KIND OF ELATION TO
CONNECT TO SOMEONE
♪♪
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY."
>>> AND NOW TO VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
MOST OF THE FEEDBACK WE RECEIV
THIS WEEK FOCUSED ON OUR
SIGNATURE STORY ABOUT A LAWSUI
CHALLENGING CALIFORNIA'S TEACHER
TENURE LAWS, A LAWSUIT BROUGHT
BY SEVERAL STUDENTS WHO SA
THOSE LAWS ARE PREVENTING THEM
FROM GETTING A GOOD EDUCATION.
>> HE WOULDN'T LET STUDENT
SMOKE MARIJUANA.
>> THEY WERE SMOKING MARIJUANA
IN CLASS
>> Reporter: THE KIDS' LAWSUIT
IS BEING FUNDED BY A
MULTIMILLIONAIRE
ONE VIEWER WROTE THIS ON LINE.
THIS LAWSUIT IS ALL ABOU
PUTTING THE JACK BOOT OF THE
BILLIONAIRE ON THE THROATS O
TEACHERS
BE HONEST.
THIS IS ABOUT SILENCING TEACHERS
AND FIRING VETERAN EDUCATORS
NOTHING MORE
BUT CHRIS HAD THIS TO SAY.
WHAT SERIOUS COMPANY DO YOU KNOW
THAT WOULD ACTUALLY GIVE THEIR
EMPLOYEES SUCH BENEFITS LIKE
TENURE OR SENIORITY?
DO YOU THINK GOOGLE, APPLE, ET
CETERA, WOULD BE SOME OF THE
GREATEST COMPANIES ON EARTH IF
THEY ALLOWED SUCH EMPLOYMENT
PRACTICES?
ABSOLUTELY NOT
WE NEED TO HOLD OUR PUBLIC
SCHOOL SYSTEM TO THE STANDARDS
OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR.
RACHEL ANDREWS SAW THAT TH
OTHER WAY AROUND
SHE WROTE, I'M A SCHOO
COUNSELOR AND I WOULD LOVE TO BE
HELD TO THE STANDARDS OF THE
PRIVATE SECTOR
WHEN I WORKED IN THE PRIVATE
SECTOR, I STARTED WORK AT
SPECIFIC TIME EACH DAY AND
STOPPED AROUND A SPECIFIC TIME
EACH DAY
HAVING BEEN AN EMPLOYEE OF A
PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM FOR SEVEN
YEARS, I GET TO WORK EARLY AND
LEAVE VERY LATE.
RARELY EVEN HAVING TIME TO EAT
LUNCH OR USE THE REST ROOM
STEPHANIE DOWNER TOLD US O
FACEBOOK THAT GETTING RID OF
TENURE PAVES THE WAY FOR
TEACHERS TO BE GOTTEN RID OF
WHEN THE DISTRICT WANTS A NE
TEACHER THAT STARTS AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE PAY SCALE.
ESS McKAY WROTE, I HAVE WORKED
EXTENSIVELY IN UNIONIZED AND
NONUNIONIZED SCHOOLS
JUST BECAUSE THERE IS NO UNION
DOESN'T MEAN TEACHERS AREN'T
BEING TAKEN CARE
REMEMBER, YOU CAN ALWAYS TELL US
WHAT YOU THINK
RESPOND TO THE STORIES ONLINE OR
ON OUR FACEBOOK PAGE
OR TWEET US BACK AT NEWSHOUR
♪♪
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON-AIR AN
ONLINE
DESPITE ALL THE HEADLINES ABOU
THE BRUTAL DRUG WAR IN MEXICO,
FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN PARTS O
THAT COUNTRY IS SURGING.
MARTIN FLETCHER REPORTS ON
MEXICO'S INCREASINGLY PROMISIN
ECONOMIC FUTURE.
>> INVESTED HALF A BILLION
DOLLARS IN THIS DIVISION
ITS 45 EMPLOYEES HERE HAVE GROWN
TO 1800.
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
-- Captions by VITAC -
www.vitac.co